docs: add guide on building golden paths with reusable infrastructure components and templates (#15685)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/golden-paths-infrastructure-components-and-templates/index.md

- **Component reuse**: Number of stacks consuming shared components
- **Time to first deployment**: Deployment time and frequency from code to production

### Quality Metrics
- **Security compliance rate**: Percentage of deployments passing security policies
- **Stability**: Deployment incident frequency
- **Mean time to recovery (MTTR)**: Time to recover from production issues

### Developer Experience Metrics
- **Developer satisfaction**: Survey teams about their platform experience
- **Support ticket volume**: Ticket volume related to infrastructure
- **Contribution **: Number of PRs or issues submitted to platform templates

## Real-World Results: Success Stories

Organizations using golden paths report significant improvements in speed and reliability:

- **[Snowflake](https://www.pulumi.com/case-studies/snowflake/)** reduced deployment time from 1.5 weeks to less than a day
- **[Mercedes-Benz](https://www.pulumi.com/case-studies/mercedes-benz/)** decreased infrastructure provisioning from weeks to minutes
- **[Starburst Data](https://www.pulumi.com/case-studies/starburst/)** cut deployment time from 2 weeks to 3 hours

> These results show that golden paths are not just developer tools, they're a competitive advantage. To learn more, download the whitepaper: [The Golden Path to Cloud Success: Your IDP Roadmap](https://info.pulu.om/whitepaper-the-golden-path-to-cloud-success).

Reviewer: check link, seems wrong

Modern cloud platforms offer endless options, over 200 AWS services, sprawling Azure catalogs, and countless DevOps tools. The result? Developers face decision fatigue and inconsistent implementations. Golden paths solve this by providing **ready-to-use, production-grade infrastructure** that encodes your organization’s best practices, security policies, and operational standards.

In this guide, you'll learn how to build golden paths for your Internal Developer Platform using two core Pulumi constructs: **Components**, reusable infrastructure building blocks, and **Templates**, predefined, deployable patterns. You'll see how to create infrastructure abstractions that are written once, shared across teams, and consumed in any language, turning weeks of setup into minutes of developer-ready infrastructure.

<!--more-->

This post is part of our IDP Best Practices series:

* [How to Build an Internal Developer Platform: Strategy, Best Practices, and Self-Service Infrastructure](/blog/idp-strategy-planning-self-service-infrastructure-that-balances-developer-autonomy-with-operational-control/)

> * **Build Golden Paths with Infrastructure Components and Templates** (you are here)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Build Golden Paths: Guide to Reusable Infrastructure with Pulumi Components and Templates** (you are here)
```

---
title: "Build Golden Paths with Infrastructure Components and Templates: A Complete Guide to Reusable Infrastructure"
allow_long_title: true
date: 2025-08-14T10:00:00+02:00
draft: false
series: idp-best-practices

> meta_desc: Learn how to build reusable infrastructure components and templates to create Golden Paths in your Internal Developer Platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_desc: Build reusable infrastructure using components and templates to create golden paths that enable scalable, self-service internal developer platforms.
```

> meta_desc: Learn how to create reusable infrastructure components and golden path templates for your Internal Developer Platform. Build standardized, self-service infrastructure patterns with Pulumi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_desc: Learn how to build reusable infrastructure components and templates to create Golden Paths in your Internal Developer Platform.
```

---

Welcome to the second post in our **IDP Best Practices** series. Today, we're diving deep into one of the most powerful concepts in platform engineering: **golden paths and reusable infrastructure components**.

If you've ever watched your developers struggle with the paradox of choice, drowning in AWS's 200+ services or getting lost in Azure's sprawling catalog, you know the problem golden paths solve. They're not just templates or starting points. They're **pre-architected, fully supported paths to production** that encode your organization's best practices, security requirements, and operational standards.

In this guide, we'll show you how to build these golden paths using two key Pulumi constructs: **Components** (reusable infrastructure building blocks) and **Templates** (complete, deployable patterns). You'll learn how to create infrastructure abstractions that can be written once and consumed in any language, turning weeks of infrastructure work into minutes of productive development.

<!--more-->

This post is part of our IDP Best Practices series:

> * [IDP Strategy: Planning Self-Service Infrastructure That Balances Developer Autonomy With Operational Control](/blog/idp-strategy-planning-self-service-infrastructure-that-balances-developer-autonomy-with-operational-control/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [How to Build an Internal Developer Platform: Strategy, Best Practices, and Self-Service Infrastructure](/blog/idp-strategy-planning-self-service-infrastructure-that-balances-developer-autonomy-with-operational-control/)
```

### Layer 2: Platform Layer (Components)
This is where the magic happens. [Pulumi Components](/docs/iac/concepts/resources/components/) take those raw resources and package them into higher-level abstractions. Instead of manually configuring 20+ AWS resources for a secure web application, you create a component that handles all that complexity and exposes just the configuration that matters:

```typescript
const app = new SecureWebApplication("my-app", {
    instanceType: "t3.medium",
    minReplicas: 2,
    maxReplicas: 10,
    enableWAF: true,
    environment: "production"
});
```

### Layer 3: Developer Experience Layer (Templates)
[Pulumi Templates](/templates/) and your [Private Registry](/docs/idp/get-started/private-registry/) make everything discoverable and usable. Templates provide complete, ready-to-deploy patterns that developers can customize. The registry ensures components and templates are versioned, documented, and accessible across your organization.

## Part 1: Building Reusable Infrastructure Components

> Components are the atoms of your platform. They are the fundamental building blocks that encapsulate complexity while remaining composable. Let's build a real-world example: a component that deploys containerized microservices to AWS Fargate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reusable infrastructure components act as the foundation of your platform. They encapsulate complexity while remaining composable and scalable. Let's build a real-world example: a component that deploys containerized microservices to AWS Fargate.
```

            clusterName: this.clusterName,
        });
    }
}
```

### Adding Documentation and Examples

To make your component easy to use, add comprehensive documentation and examples to a `README.md` file:

```bash
# MicroserviceComponent

Abstraction for resources needed when using AWS container services. 

A component to abstract the details related to:
- Creating a docker image and pushing it to AWS ECR.
- Deploy to ECS Fargate using the docker image. 

# Inputs

* appPath: Path to local folder containing the app and Dockerfile.
* port: Port to expose via an ALB.
* cpu (Optional): CPU capacity. Defaults to 256 (i.e. 0.25 vCPU).
* memory (Optional): Memory capacity. Defaults to 512 (i.e. 0.5GB).
* containerName (Optional): Name of the container. Defaults to "my-app".

# Outputs

* publicUrl: The DNS name for the loadbalancer fronting the app.

# Usage
## Specify Package in `Pulumi.yaml`

Add the following to your `Pulumi.yaml` file:
Note: If no version is specified, the latest version will be used.

... omit for brevity ...
```
This documentation will help developers understand how to use your component effectively, including required inputs, outputs, and example usage.

> ### Publishing Your Component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Publishing Your Component via Private Registry
```

Once your component is ready, publish it to your [Pulumi Private Registry](/docs/idp/get-started/private-registry/):

```bash
# Tag your component version
git tag v1.0.1

# Publish to your organization's registry
pulumi package publish https://registry.pulumi.com/myorg/microservice-component
```

Now any team in your organization can discover and use your component, regardless of their language preference. All they need is to navigate to the `Components` section in the Pulumi IDP and search for `microservice-component`.

![img_2.png](pulumi_idp_components_view.png)

## Part 2: Creating Golden Path Templates

> ![img_3.png](road_to_success_golden_paths.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Why do you remove this image?

While components are powerful building blocks, templates are complete, opinionated starting points that embody your organization's best practices. They're the "golden paths" that guide developers to production.

> ### The Maturity Journey: From No Paths to Product-Grade Platforms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Golden Path Maturity: From Zero to Product-Grade Platforms
```

> ![img_8.png](golden_paths_maturity_level.png)
> 
> Organizations typically progress through three stages of golden path maturity:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teams evolve from ad hoc deployments to mature, productized templates with versioning, metrics, and governance. These maturity levels reflect how deeply your platform enables safe, consistent delivery.

![img_8.png](golden_paths_maturity_level.png)

Organizations typically progress through three stages of golden path maturity:
```

- Health check configuration

You **do** focus on:
- Writing your Go application logic
- Adding your business endpoints
- Testing your service locally
- Deploying with confidence

... omit for brevity ...

```

### Making Templates Available in Pulumi IDP

Publishing your template to [Pulumi IDP](/docs/idp/) enables true self-service. Head to `Settings` → `Integrations` → `Organization Template Sources` and add your template repository.

![img_4.png](pulumi_idp_integrations_view.png)

Once published, developers can discover and deploy it directly from the IDP interface.

![img_5.png](pulumi_idp_templates_view.png)

Now developers can deploy through multiple interfaces:

**CLI Deployment:**
```bash
pulumi new https://github.com/myorg/go-microservice-boilerplate
```

**No-Code Deployment:**
Navigate to [Pulumi IDP](/docs/idp/get-started/workflows/) → `Templates` → `Deploy with Pulumi` → Configure and launch

![img_7.png](pulumi_idp_deployment_no_code_view.png)

**Pulumi Deployment:**
Navigate to [Pulumi IDP](/docs/idp/get-started/workflows/) → `Templates` → `Deploy with Pulumi` → Configure and launch

![img_6.png](pulumi_idp_deployment_git_view.png)

> ## Best Practices for Component and Template Design

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Best Practices for Reusable Infrastructure Components and Templates
```

 *     minReplicas: 2,
 *     maxReplicas: 10
 * });
 * \```
 */
export class SecureWebApplication extends pulumi.ComponentResource {
    // Implementation...
}
```

### 4. Version Everything
Use semantic versioning for both components and templates:
- **Major versions** (1.0.0 → 2.0.0): Breaking changes
- **Minor versions** (1.0.0 → 1.1.0): New features, backward compatible
- **Patch versions** (1.0.0 → 1.0.1): Bug fixes

### 5. Test Your Abstractions
Create comprehensive tests for your components:
```typescript
import { expect } from "chai";
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

describe("MicroserviceComponent", () => {
    it("should create required resources", async () => {
        const component = new MicroserviceComponent("test", {
            appPath: "./test-app",
            port: 3000
        });
        
        const resources = await pulumi.runtime.allResources();
        expect(resources).to.include("aws:ecs/cluster:Cluster");
        expect(resources).to.include("aws:ecs/service:Service");
        expect(resources).to.include("aws:lb/loadBalancer:LoadBalancer");
    });
});
```

## Measuring Success: KPIs for Your Golden Paths

> Track these metrics to validate your golden path strategy:
> 
> ### Adoption Metrics
> - **Template usage rate**: What percentage of new projects use golden paths?
> - **Component reuse**: How many projects consume shared components?
> - **Time to first deployment**: How quickly can teams go from code to production?
> 
> ### Quality Metrics
> - **Security compliance rate**: What percentage of deployments pass security policies?
> - **Incident frequency**: Are golden path deployments more stable?
> - **Mean time to recovery**: Can teams fix issues faster with standardized infrastructure?
> 
> ### Developer Experience Metrics
> - **Developer satisfaction scores**: Survey teams about their platform experience
> - **Support ticket volume**: Are golden paths reducing support burden?
> - **Contribution rate**: Are teams contributing improvements back to templates?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Golden paths aren’t complete until they deliver measurable value. Use these KPIs to assess performance and drive iteration:

### Adoption Metrics
- **Template usage rate**: Percentage of new projects using golden paths
- **Component reuse**: Number of stacks consuming shared components
- **Time to first deployment**: Deployment time and frequency from code to production

### Quality Metrics
- **Security compliance rate**: What percentage of deployments pass security policies?
- **Incident frequency**: Are golden path deployments more stable?
- **Mean time to recovery**: Can teams fix issues faster with standardized infrastructure?

### Developer Experience Metrics
- **Developer satisfaction scores**: Survey teams about their platform experience
- **Support ticket volume**: Are golden paths reducing support burden?
- **Contribution rate**: Are teams contributing improvements back to templates?
```

> Track these metrics to validate your golden path strategy:
> 
> ### Adoption Metrics
> - **Template usage rate**: What percentage of new projects use golden paths?
> - **Component reuse**: How many projects consume shared components?
> - **Time to first deployment**: How quickly can teams go from code to production?
> 
> ### Quality Metrics
> - **Security compliance rate**: What percentage of deployments pass security policies?
> - **Incident frequency**: Are golden path deployments more stable?
> - **Mean time to recovery**: Can teams fix issues faster with standardized infrastructure?
> 
> ### Developer Experience Metrics
> - **Developer satisfaction scores**: Survey teams about their platform experience
> - **Support ticket volume**: Are golden paths reducing support burden?
> - **Contribution rate**: Are teams contributing improvements back to templates?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Golden paths aren’t complete until they deliver measurable value. Use these KPIs to assess performance and drive iteration:

### Adoption Metrics
- **Template usage rate**: Percentage of new projects using golden paths
- **Component reuse**: Number of stacks consuming shared components
- **Time to first deployment**: Deployment time and frequency from code to production

### Quality Metrics
- **Security compliance rate**: Percentage of deployments passing security policies
- **Stability**: Deployment incident frequency
- **Mean time to recovery (MTTR)**: Time to recover from production issues

### Developer Experience Metrics
- **Developer satisfaction**: Survey teams about their platform experience
- **Support ticket volume**: Ticket volume related to infrastructure
- **Contribution **: Number of PRs or issues submitted to platform templates
```

The impact of well-designed golden paths is transformative:

- **Snowflake** reduced deployment time from 1.5 weeks to less than a day
- **Mercedes-Benz** decreased infrastructure provisioning from weeks to minutes
- **Starburst Data** cut deployment time from 2 weeks to 3 hours

These aren't just efficiency gains. They're competitive advantages that let teams focus on innovation instead of infrastructure.

## Common Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them

### Pitfall 1: Over-Abstraction
**Problem**: Creating components so abstract they're unusable
**Solution**: Start with concrete use cases, then generalize based on actual patterns

### Pitfall 2: Insufficient Escape Hatches
**Problem**: Golden paths become golden cages
**Solution**: Always provide ways to extend or override default behavior

### Pitfall 3: Poor Versioning Strategy
**Problem**: Breaking changes without migration paths
**Solution**: Maintain backward compatibility and provide clear upgrade guides

### Pitfall 4: Lack of Ownership
**Problem**: Templates become orphaned and outdated
**Solution**: Assign clear ownership and establish maintenance schedules

## The Future of Golden Paths: AI and Beyond

> As we look ahead, golden paths are evolving with new capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The future of golden paths is intelligent, cross-cloud, and fully integrated with modern workflows.
```

### AI-Enhanced Templates
Imagine templates that adapt based on your application's actual behavior, automatically tuning resources and configurations for optimal performance and cost.

### Cross-Cloud Portability
Components that abstract not just resources but entire cloud providers, enabling true multi-cloud golden paths.

### GitOps-Native Workflows
Templates that include not just infrastructure but complete GitOps pipelines, from code commit to production deployment.

> ## Getting Started: Your Action Plan

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Your First Steps to Golden Paths
```

> Ready to build golden paths for your organization? Here's your roadmap:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ready to get started? Here's your action plan:
```
